---
title: On Hyprland Moderation
date: 1728487000
author:
  name: NotAShelf
  link: https://github.com/NotAShelf/
  picture: /imgs/profile_pictures/raf.webp
---

Hyprland's moderation and the state of the community has been a touchy subject
for a while. Today, I would like to address this comprehensively. While I
believe the community has improved significantly, I also acknowledge that it is
not yet perfect. This post covers previously raised pain points alongside my
personal comments, our response, and the future direction of the Hyprland
community.

This will be a somewhat unusual post, as it is both a heart-to-heart message
aimed at improving the community and a status report. Let me begin by
highlighting the steps we've taken so far, along with our efforts to improve
moderation. You may or may not agree with these actions, but please understand
that they were taken in good faith, with the genuine intention of bettering the
community.

## Previous Attempts

Some time ago, I requested that Vaxry appoint me as the "Community Manager" to
help share the burden of feedback and criticism that Vaxry personally receives.
My goal was to address issues from a different perspective and bring more
balance to the moderation process. This has certainly been... an experience for
me, but unfortunately, it has not been as effective as I initially hoped.

Although we came a very long way, my attempts to communicate on or resolve
existing issues have failed time and time again, which is why I think the
general narrative around the Hyprland community is wildly inaccurate: the feedback comes in
the form of rants, and never a constructive, two sided process of communication.

From the perspective of someone who actively engages with the community, I must
say I do not see any instances of problems present in most common comments found
online, especially the accusation that Hyprland community hosts nazis and
transphobes. Let me go on to say that this is _wildly_ incorrect as for the
longest time those who spread hateful ideology, such as, but not limited to
the previously mentioned groups, have been dealt with swiftly. Those groups of
people are NOT tolerated, and they will NEVER be tolerated. Let me make that
**very** clear.

Moving on to more visible issues, a frequently raised concern is the lack of
communication from the moderation team. This is true. Although we have a
relatively large moderation team, only a few members are consistently active,
while the rest are barely engaged. As a result, I often find myself the primary
recipient of complaints, and I acknowledge that I have not been able to handle
them all effectively. In some cases, I have been insufferable and unresponsive.
For that, I apologize, and promise to be more approachable in future
communications regarding moderation.

Similarly, I can only apologize for my inability to resolve all the issues
within the Hyprland community. That is why I am asking you -whoever you may be-
to talk to me. If you feel harassed or attacked as part of the community, please
reach out. You can use the mod-mail feature we implemented some time ago, or
contact me directly via Matrix or email. I am open to discussing any and all
concerns you might have about the community.

For those wanting to address Vaxry’s behavior, that is not my place, nor is it
the purpose of this post. Vaxry is his own person, and I will not comment on his
actions. However, Vaxry has asked me to tell you that you can contact him
directly if you have concerns. He is open to civil discussions.

## Next Steps

As we look toward improving moderation, I invite all of you to reach out with
any concerns. You can contact me via email or, preferably, on Matrix at
`@raf:notashelf.dev`. In the coming days, we will be hosting a form to collect
your **anonymous** comments and critiques on moderation. If you're part of the
Discord community, I encourage you to participate in the voting process.

Additionally, I will be working on reworking the moderation team and improving
our communication methods. If you have any suggestions, please don’t hesitate to
let me know through the channels mentioned above.

Best, raf
